[DataGridPremium] Add Excel export (#3981)
mui/mui-x: docs/data/data-grid/export/export.md

- [Print](#print-export)
- [CSV](#csv-export)

> - [Excel](#excel-export) [<span class="plan-premium"></span>](https://mui.com/store/items/material-ui-pro/)

Reviewer: We will need to update [this line](https://github.com/mui/material-ui/blob/424a31de18680baab7442c8cca8ff8c2530f8eb3/docs/src/components/pricing/PricingTable.tsx#L582)

{{"demo": "CustomExport.js", "bg": "inline", "defaultCodeOpen": false}}

## Excel export [<span class="plan-premium"></span>](https://mui.com/store/items/material-ui-pro/)

> ⚠️ This feature is temporarily available on the Pro plan until the release of the Premium plan.
>
> To avoid future regression for users of the Pro plan, the feature needs to be explicitly activated using the `excelExport` experimental feature flag.
>
> ```tsx
> <DataGridPro experimentalFeatures={{ excelExport: true }} {...otherProps} />
> ```
>
> The feature is stable in its current form, and we encourage users willing to migrate to the Premium plan once available to start using it.

The excel export allows translating columns' type and tree structure of a DataGrid to an Excel file.

Columns with type `'boolean'`, `'number'`, `'singleSelect'`, `'date'`, and `'dateTime'` will be exported in their corresponding type in Excel. To make this work, please ensure that `rows` values have the correct type, or [convert types to correct ones](/components/data-grid/columns/#converting-types).

This feature relies on the package [exceljs](https://github.com/exceljs/exceljs).

> To export in Excel format, you have to install this package with `yarn add exceljs` or `npm install exceljs`.

Reviewer 2: Please use the same format from

https://github.com/mui/mui-x/blob/d7cb410367eddf19e421c8d2d81a24f05e00eb64/docs/data/data-grid/getting-started/getting-started.md?plain=1#L13-L19

{{"demo": "ExcelExport.js", "bg": "inline"}}

### Template Excel

> To manage Excel file creation, the DataGrid uses [exceljs](https://github.com/exceljs/exceljs) internally.

Reviewer 2: We already introduced this requirement in the introduction.

```suggestion
```

> You can customize the document before and after the creation of rows containing data, by using functions `exceljsPreprocess` and `exceljsPostprocess`.

Reviewer 2: Could you describe better when `exceljsPreprocess` is ideal instead of `exceljsPostprocess`.

> These functions input is an object `{workbook, worksheet}`, which are `exceljs` objects allowing you to manipulate the excel file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Both functions receive as input an object `{ workbook, worksheet }`, which are `exceljs` objects allowing you to manipulate the Excel file.
```

Thanks to these two methods, you can add metadata to your documents, or add custom content on top or bottom of the worksheet.

> In the demo below, we add some rows at the top of the Excel file to add a custom header.

Reviewer 2: Could you add an example inline of how to use any of the methods? It can show how to change the worksheet title or something else.

{{"demo": "CustomExport.js", "bg": "inline", "defaultCodeOpen": false}}

## Excel export [<span class="plan-premium"></span>](https://mui.com/store/items/material-ui-pro/)

> > ⚠️ This feature is temporarily available on the Pro plan until the release of the Premium plan.

Author: I keep this comment open, I will do the modification when we effectively have the Premium package

>
> To avoid future regression for users of the Pro plan, the feature needs to be explicitly activated using the `excelExport` experimental feature flag.
>
> ```tsx
> <DataGridPro experimentalFeatures={{ excelExport: true }} {...otherProps} />
> ```
>
> The feature is stable in its current form, and we encourage users willing to migrate to the Premium plan once available to start using it.

The Excel export allows translating columns' type and tree structure of a DataGrid to an Excel file.

Columns with type `'boolean'`, `'number'`, `'singleSelect'`, `'date'`, and `'dateTime'` will be exported in their corresponding type in Excel. To make this work, please ensure that `rows` values have the correct type, or [convert types to correct ones](/components/data-grid/columns/#converting-types).

{{"demo": "ExcelExport.js", "bg": "inline", "defaultCodeOpen": false}}

This feature relies on the package [exceljs](https://github.com/exceljs/exceljs).
To export in Excel format, you have to install this package.

```sh
 // with npm
 npm install exceljs

 // with yarn
 yarn add exceljs
```

### Template Excel

> You can customize the document before and after the creation of rows containing data, by using functions `exceljsPreProcess` and `exceljsPostProcess`.

Author: I do not think we can change the lib without making breaking change.

If we change the library, it will have different methods, and so developers will have to rewrite there `excelPreProcessor` and  `excelPostProcessor`

To add a new library, we can add an option `library` set by default to `"exceljs"` and if it developpers set it to `"xlsx"` we use that library and `xlsxPreProcessor` instead of `exceljsPreProcessor`

Both functions receive as input an object `{ workbook, worksheet }`, which are `exceljs` objects allowing you to manipulate the Excel file.

Thanks to these two methods, you can add metadata to your documents, or add custom content on top or bottom of the worksheet ass follow.

```jsx
function exceljsPreProcess({ workbook, worksheet }) {
  workbook.created = new Date(); // Add metadata
  worksheet.name = 'monthly results'; // Modify worksheet name

  // Write on first line the date of creation
  worksheet.getCell('A1').value = `Values from the`;
  worksheet.getCell('A2').value = new Date();
}

function exceljsPostProcess({ worksheet }) {
  // add a text after the data
  worksheet.addRow(); // Add empty row

  const newRow = worksheet.addRow();
  newRow.getCell(1).value = 'Those data are for internal use only';
}
```

> 

Author: The goal was to say 

> Look at what you can do, but for that go checking the exceljs doc

Like that there is no possible confusion between what comes from to the data grid, and what comes from exceljs

> 

Reviewer: I think our Excel doc content will depend a lot on the user feedback
It's a feature where the user could do everything without us, but with a high value anyway. So if users struggle to find info in the ExcelJS doc that is often useful for them, I would be in favor of adding examples on our doc.

But only if there is a strong need of course

{{"demo": "CustomExport.js", "bg": "inline", "defaultCodeOpen": false}}

## Excel export [<span class="plan-premium"></span>](https://mui.com/store/items/material-ui-pro/)

The Excel export allows translating columns' type and tree structure of a DataGrid to an Excel file.

Columns with types `'boolean'`, `'number'`, `'singleSelect'`, `'date'`, and `'dateTime'` are exported in their corresponding type in Excel. Please ensure the `rows` values have the correct type, you can always [convert them](/components/data-grid/columns/#converting-types) as needed.

{{"demo": "ExcelExport.js", "bg": "inline", "defaultCodeOpen": false}}

This feature relies on [exceljs](https://github.com/exceljs/exceljs).
To install it:

```sh
 // with npm
 npm install exceljs

 // with yarn
 yarn add exceljs
```

> ### Customizing the exported file

Reviewer 3: Maybe to keep it one line?

```suggestion
### Customizing the export
```
<img width="224" alt="Screenshot 2022-04-04 at 23 58 38" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/3165635/161639127-8526d6c8-5768-4be9-aea6-c6049eb689d6.png">

{{"demo": "CustomExport.js", "bg": "inline", "defaultCodeOpen": false}}

## Excel export [<span class="plan-premium"></span>](https://mui.com/store/items/material-ui-pro/)

The Excel export allows translating columns' type and tree structure of a DataGrid to an Excel file.

Columns with types `'boolean'`, `'number'`, `'singleSelect'`, `'date'`, and `'dateTime'` are exported in their corresponding type in Excel. Please ensure the `rows` values have the correct type, you can always [convert them](/components/data-grid/columns/#converting-types) as needed.

{{"demo": "ExcelExport.js", "bg": "inline", "defaultCodeOpen": false}}

This feature relies on [exceljs](https://github.com/exceljs/exceljs).
To install it:

```sh
 // with npm
 npm install exceljs

 // with yarn
 yarn add exceljs
```

### Customization

#### Customizing the columns

You can use the property `columnsStyles` to customize the column style.
This property accepts an object in which keys are the column field and values an [exceljs style object](https://github.com/exceljs/exceljs#styles).

This can be used to specify value formatting or to add some colors.

```jsx
<GridToolbarExport

>   excelOptions={{
>     // replace the dd.mm.yyyy default date format
>     recruitmentDay: { numFmt: 'dd/mm/yyyy' },
>     // set this column in green
>     incomes: { font: { argb: 'FF00FF00' } },
>   }}

Reviewer 4: `columnsStyles` is missing

```suggestion
  excelOptions={{
    columnsStyles: {
      // replace the dd.mm.yyyy default date format
      recruitmentDay: { numFmt: 'dd/mm/yyyy' },
      // set this column in green
      incomes: { font: { argb: 'FF00FF00' } },
    }
  }}
```

/>
```

#### Customizing the document

You can customize the document using two callback functions:

- `exceljsPreProcess` called **before** adding the rows' dataset.
- `exceljsPostProcess` called **after** the dataset has been exported to the document.

Both functions receive `{ workbook, worksheet }` as input.
They are [exceljs](https://github.com/exceljs/exceljs#interface) objects and allow you to directly manipulate the Excel file.

Thanks to these two methods, you can modify the metadata of the exported spreadsheet.

> You can also use it to add add custom content on top or bottom of the worksheet, as follow:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
You can also use it to add custom content on top or bottom of the worksheet, as follow:
```

```jsx
function exceljsPreProcess({ workbook, worksheet }) {
  workbook.created = new Date(); // Add metadata
  worksheet.name = 'Monthly Results'; // Modify worksheet name

  // Write on first line the date of creation
  worksheet.getCell('A1').value = `Values from the`;
  worksheet.getCell('A2').value = new Date();
}

function exceljsPostProcess({ worksheet }) {
  // Add a text after the data
  worksheet.addRow(); // Add empty row

  const newRow = worksheet.addRow();
  newRow.getCell(1).value = 'Those data are for internal use only';

> }

Reviewer 4: It's not clear from the docs where should those callbacks go.
Maybe add this?

```suggestion
}

// ...

<GridToolbarExport
  excelOptions={{
    exceljsPreProcess,
    exceljsPostProcess,
  }}
/>
```

{{"demo": "CustomExport.js", "bg": "inline", "defaultCodeOpen": false}}

## Excel export [<span class="plan-premium"></span>](https://mui.com/store/items/material-ui-pro/)

The Excel export allows translating columns' type and tree structure of a DataGrid to an Excel file.

Columns with types `'boolean'`, `'number'`, `'singleSelect'`, `'date'`, and `'dateTime'` are exported in their corresponding type in Excel. Please ensure the `rows` values have the correct type, you can always [convert them](/components/data-grid/columns/#converting-types) as needed.

{{"demo": "ExcelExport.js", "bg": "inline", "defaultCodeOpen": false}}

This feature relies on [exceljs](https://github.com/exceljs/exceljs).
To install it:

> ```sh

Reviewer 4: Maybe move installation part to the very top of the section, so that it's harder to miss dependency requirement?
